Welcome back in the previous step we added a dependency on ribbon and we added the annotation at ribbon	client
as well.
We also configured the URLs for the currency exchange service inside the application.properties.
Now let's try and kick these applications up and try and distribute the load using a ribbon.
I have already have the currency exchange service application running.
Let's check that up once currency exchange application on eight thousand.
Ok this is working fine.
I would want to launch another instance of the currency exchange application.
We have already configured a currency exchange application to be able to run it on eight Thousand One I'll launch
that up.
So we'll have two instances of the currency exchange.
Service application eight thousand and eight thousand one.
I'm launch up eight thousand one as well.
While it's launching up if you really want to configure a different port other than the default port
for launching up application it's very easy to do that.
We saw that in one of the early steps as well.
All you need to do is let's say I want to run the currency exchange application eight thousand in eight thousand
two as well.
All that I would need to do is right click this right click duplicate now go over here and change the name.
eight thousand to eight thousand two.
You need to go to the argument and passing.
Hyphen D server.
Dot port is equal to which port the application has to run it eight thousand two.
And when you run this let's first app like this and then you run this the application would run on port eight thousand two
for now.
I'm not really interested in running it on eight thousand two.
You would see that for a thousand one.
We have a similar setting and that's the application which we have launched.
So I could go this you'd see that we have two currency exchange applications running eight thousand one and
eight thousand.
Let's ensure that make sure that they are up and running.
Let's go to eight thousand one and hit the currency exchange.
Ok that's cool.
So we now have two instances of the currency exchange running our currency converter feign is down.
So here let's launch that up currency conversion.
service application 8100 can we launch it up please in the application dot properties of the currency
conversion service we have configured the URLs for the currency exchange service.
We said the URLs are eight thousand and eight thousand one.
That's cool.
You can see that there are a set of statastics that are being printed right now because we configured
ribbon.
Everybody is saying OK this is the status of the current server that I'm talking to localhost eight thousand
localhost eight thousand one.
We have not sent any requests through yet.
So let's trigger off the request the request I would want to send this localhost 8100 currency conversion frign from
EUR to INR quantity let's say.
Not thousand but the ten thousand and you can see that this request is coming out with a successful response
which currency exchange application is handling the request.
You can see that the response is coming back from the application on port eight thousand one you can re
fresh it again you'd see that the next time the request is handled by the currency exchange service
on port eight thousand refresh again.
Eight thousand one refresh again eight thousand.
This is cool right now what ever request that we are sending from currency converter Feign are being distributed
against two instances of the currency exchange service.
So what is happening is Ribbon is now distributing the load between the two active currency exchange
services.
So currency exchange service one is running on port eight thousand.
This is running on port eight thousand one.
So what ever calls are made using ribbon through the currency calculation servies are being
distributed between these two services in this step.
We were able to launch up two instances of the currency exchange service and saw that ribbon distribute
the load from currency conversion service between these two instances of the currency exchange service.
However there are still a few things that we would want to improve on top of the set up that we already
have.
We will discuss those in the next step.